---
layout: post
title: How to Make the Web Better
date: 2016-01-29 
categories:
tags: the shift
image: /assets/article_images/2016-01-29-how_to_make_the_web_better/shift.jpg
comments: true
---

My excitement about the web started when I was about 10 years old. My parents replaced our family computer with a new one so that old family computer got moved into my room. I spent countless hours playing games on the Cartoon Network website and taking care of my NeoPets. I also chatted with friends from school on AIM, and sometimes I would venture into forums about movies and music that I liked. I loved being able to entertain myself for hours and hours. Often I would lose track of time doing all of these things I loved within the comfort of my own room. It was wonderful until I encountered Internet bullying and abuse. I saw it all over the place from both friends and strangers. It wasn't always directed at me, but seeing that type of negativity when you're just trying to get some information about your favorite band, for example, makes it a less enjoyable space.

Within the past couple of weeks, my girlfriend and I have started getting into vinyl. She's been super excited and curious about this new hobby, and went to Reddit's r/vinyl to learn more about the turntable she had purchased and what makes a good introductory turntable. After some of the responses she got, she was stressed and most of her excitement had been crushed because people were treating her badly for no real reason. She expressed that she was a newbie, but instead of building her up and trying to provide her with some good information, she was treated like her turntable was absolute garbage and she should have known better. 

Going back to this question of how to make the web better, I think it really comes down to being better as people, users of the web and creators of the web alike. Being better about how we treat each other and interact with one another. It's important for us all to keep in mind that behind every profile picture is an actual person with a story and a unique perspective. There's more to them than this one tweet or Reddit post that you don't agree with. Let’s not berate someone or tear them down for not liking the band that you've been obsessing over lately or for being confused about something that you think is simply common sense.

Web technologies have improved immensely within the last 10 years; I think we can all agree on that. I'm sure there will be plenty more improvements to reflect on when we look back in another 10 years as well. Internet bullying and abuse, however, have not had noticeable improvements over time. Not that I've noticed anyway. But it is just as important for our interactions and behaviors online to improve along with web technology itself. I truly believe that making our online spaces more inviting and welcoming will make these spaces more accessible and bring in more diverse thoughts and perspectives. If we can do all of that just by thinking before we type and practicing empathy, don’t you think it’s worth it?
